# CM: Corpus Description

My corpus focuses on how has jazz evolved over the eras, starting from the 1920s. I picked this corpus because the origin of the genre and the multitude of strong cultural backgrounds tied to it piqued my interest. It will be interesting to explore the differences in the genre throughout the different ages of jazz, as well as how the abundance of sub-genres began to sprout from said eras as groups of comparison. I also like how there are a variety of instruments used in jazz, and different combinations of different instruments produce unique sounds. I expect some differences to be found in how the culture of the given time period, as well as sub-genre influence, affects the overall sound of that era in terms of tempo and chords. I expect for there to be an underlying similar rhythm maintained. There is a ridiculous amount of diversity in the world of jazz music on Spotify. I will have to find the specific sound of each decade and compare those, otherwise it is risky to get lost in the sea of sub-genres that exist within the genre. 

## Week 7 HW

I created a ggplot comparing the danceability of older jazz (from the 1920s) to modern jazz. There were a number of factors I would have liked to analyze, such as how energy and instrumentalness impact the danceability of a jazz song, but I decided to keep the ggplot on the simple side as to help solidify my understandings of how to plot data, but also to help me understand how the analysis of how each factor looks differently for different jazz songs. I used a boxplot for this comparison since I was comparing 2 different categories. I made 2 separate playlists for old and modern jazz, and used the analyze playlist audio features function to extrapolate the data from the songs within those playlists. Looking at the boxplots, it is evident that newer jazz is much more "danceable" than older jazz, as the median value of danceability is around 0.6, as compared to around 0.46 for old jazz. The boxplots in my ggplot indicate overall that newer jazz holds much higher danceability values than older jazz, however I think it is important to note that the playlists which RStudio is analyzing only holds 5 songs each. I should add many more songs to both playlists in order to gage a more accurate comparison.
